What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

When you initialize a repo, you create an .git directory to contain all of the
metadata needed to keep track of the changes made to the files and the versions
they are associated with. You need to do the init to create an empty git repo
to be able to commit changes to it.


How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
What value do you think it offers?

The working dir is where all of your project file reside, changed or unchanged.
The staging area is where you "add" the files you want to commit to the repo.
The value is in separating the two and being able to control when changes get
committed to the repo. Only "added" changes to the staging are will be committed
by a git commit command.


How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical
change?

Easy, only add (git add filename) the changed files from your working dir that
you want in that logical change segment.


What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history
organized? How would branches help?

if you want to experiment, because it prevents you from affecting the master
branch.

To create a textual diagram of the master and specific branch(es), run this:
git log --graph --oneline master <branch_name>

To create a branch for an unreachable commit (something other than the head of
master or head of a branch), run this:

git checkout -b <new_branch_name>
or
git branch <new_branch_name>
git checkout <new_branch_name>


How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

Allows you to better visualize how the repo and its branches are laid out. Can
help you see what and where to merge.

to to see all of the branches:
git branch

to merge coins into master:
git merge master coins

If you get a conflict on the merge, you will have to correct the conflict BEFORE
the merge. So run this to abort the merge:

git merge --abort

to display only the latest commit, do this:
git log -n 1


What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges
manually?

If git can do auto merging, then that is that much less for the user to do to
determine what needs to go where. takes the time needed to complete out the
equation. The con is on a conflict, there is a manual merge process that might
be more difficult that one might expect.
